From mike.evans at incremental.eu.com  Tue Oct  4 10:04:28 2005
From: mike.evans at incremental.eu.com (Mike Evans)
Date: Tue, 04 Oct 2005 09:04:28 +0100
Subject: [Rcpviewer-contributors] Update 04/10/05
Message-ID: <4342378C.908@incremental.eu.com>

Uh-oh.  An 'Update' mail, not a 'Progress' one...
Actually there is progress - just nothing checked in yet.
I have actually spent 3+ mandays on re-architecting the GUI stuff.
Of this, 2+ mandays was wasted as I went around in circles (not one for 
up-front design me) which is a shame - and the thing looks not too 
radically diffrent from before.  However this means I have at least 
contented myself that I cannot come up with any brilliant, simpler way 
of doing things.
Another 1.5 or so mandays effort and it'll all be safely in SVN - so say 
next week some time - does this still fit with your commitmetns Dan?

Mike E.




-- 
Mike Evans
Incremental Ltd.
www.incremental.eu.com



From dan at haywood-associates.co.uk  Sat Oct 15 07:19:26 2005
From: dan at haywood-associates.co.uk (Dan Haywood)
Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2005 06:19:26 +0100
Subject: [Rcpviewer-contributors] testing, testing
Message-ID: <LGEELLOAEBMLCOGIKLMKIEBEDFAA.dan@haywood-associates.co.uk>

Mike reports that this mailing list is bouncing - is it?



From dan at haywood-associates.co.uk  Sat Oct 15 07:26:59 2005
From: dan at haywood-associates.co.uk (Dan Haywood)
Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2005 06:26:59 +0100
Subject: [Rcpviewer-contributors] Progress 20051014 - on behalf of Mike
Message-ID: <LGEELLOAEBMLCOGIKLMKAEBFDFAA.dan@haywood-associates.co.uk>

Finally something to report.

The project 'org.essentialplatform.louis' is (or should be - see last
paragraph) submitted.  It is a direct replacement for the
'de.berlios.recpviewer.gui' project. The only external difference is
that it does not rely on 'net.sf.plugins.utils'.
Both 'de.berlios.rcpviewer.gui.acme' and
'de.berlios.rcpviewer.petstore.gui' projects now rely on it.

Internally it is a rewrite that, after much faff and heartache, is not
really that different to its predecessor.  However I am much happier
with it as it enables much easier extension for domain & value objects etc.

The core pattern is a IGUIFactory per attribute/reference on a domain
object. Each generates a GUI component and an IFormPart for.  The
IFormPart is the model that holds gui values until a commit when these
are flushed to the domain model.  Essentailly a composite pattern.
Best to start with DefaultEditor and see how the calls work form there.

Supporting patterns:

Finite Options Factories
e.g ILouisLabelProvider, ITransferProvider
- getX( args ) methods which return null if the provider cannot satisfy
the request

Infinite Options Factories
e.g. IGuiFactory
- isApplicable( args1 ) and getX( args2 ) methods where the second can
only be called if the first is true

Global Factories
Essentially collections of the above that iterate through the collection
until the first factory that can satisfy the request. Generally there
are default factories and an extsnion point for domain specialisations.
Order is significant.

Obviously I'll get this lot writetn onto the wiki when I get a chance.

Issues.
1) insufficient testing - I have been on this for far too long and have
no more time
2) generics faff - you'll see that my generics are a bit of a mess -
will get tidied in the fulness of time
3) domain listening - I have the IFormPart's set up to listen in on
domain changes and refresh themselves if an external change occurs.
This takes no account of whetehr they are dirty or not so this will have
to be worked upon.
4) Transactions !?  Have not really got to grip with Dan's transaction
stuff so getting arbitary & confusing issues if I do not save in the
right order (..?).  Again, with more time will get a better handle on
this.  Note also that I had to make one emergency change on
de.berlios.rcpviewer.transaction.internal.TransactionManager
('de.berlios.recpviewer.deomain.runtime' project) to get anything to
work.  I have checked this in under a REVIEW_CHANGE marker but accept
this is most probably my misuderstanding.
5) Why are the 'Color' attribute in EasyBean and any attribute in
EasiestBean not picked by up by the model?
6) AspectJ kills my machine - 512 MB is simply not enough - I have to
restart every hour!  Much better when I turn off auto-build but hey...

Time
Due to my own faffing I have spent much too much time on this.  I will
not be able to do much (/any) more between now and mid-November when I
return from a conference I am going to.  Obviously I am here for scary
bugs / ineviatbel SVN problems etc but that's about all.

Finally.
Dan, my SVN access is crawling & when it did get somewhere it threw up a
'corrupt data' message (??).  I'll try again tomorow am (again must rush
off now) but just in case I have sent to you a zip file of the project.

Mike E.


-- 
Mike Evans
Incremental Ltd.
www.incremental.eu.com



-- 
Mike Evans
Incremental Ltd.
www.incremental.eu.com



-- 
Mike Evans
Incremental Ltd.
www.incremental.eu.com





From dan at haywood-associates.co.uk  Sat Oct 15 07:48:08 2005
From: dan at haywood-associates.co.uk (Dan Haywood)
Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2005 06:48:08 +0100
Subject: [Rcpviewer-contributors] Icons uploaded.
Message-ID: <LGEELLOAEBMLCOGIKLMKKEBFDFAA.dan@haywood-associates.co.uk>

I commissioned some icons for demos and more generally for use in any
applications built on the Essential Platform.  These are now uploaded into
trunk/icons.  A README explains the usage rights.

Dan




From mike.evans at incremental.eu.com  Sat Oct 15 12:16:58 2005
From: mike.evans at incremental.eu.com (Mike Evans)
Date: Sat, 15 Oct 2005 11:16:58 +0100
Subject: [Rcpviewer-contributors] Progress 20051015
Message-ID: <4350D71A.2060607@incremental.eu.com>

org.essentialplatform.louis committed to SVN (rev 507)
affected projects:
* petstore
* gui.acme
* persistence
- all will need updating
note also the Transactionmanager fix I mentioned before if you find 
nothing working.

Built everything new today with a fresh Eclipse install so SVN version 
should be hunky-dory.

Mike E.

PS : fatal flaw #1 : my IFormParts are refreshing even after a failed 
commit - hence after a failed save the gui reversts to it inital state. 
  ooops - will fix next week.
-- 
Mike Evans
Incremental Ltd.
www.incremental.eu.com



